Docs: Add topic section on storage (#6207)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/topics/storage.rst

.. _topics:storage:

*******
Storage
*******

> Each AiiDA profile defines a _storage_ which is where all data in the provenance graph is stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each AiiDA profile defines a *storage* which is where all data in the provenance graph is stored.
```

It's clearly time for us to move to a Markdown-based documentation approach. ^^

Typically, a storage consists of a :ref:`database <topics:database>` and a :ref:`repository <topics:repository>`.

> The provenance graph data itself is mostly persisted to the database, with binary blobs that are attached to nodes, such as files, being stored in the repository.

Author: I mean that technically what you store don't _have_ to be files. They can literally be some binary content, e.g.
```
node.base.repository.put_object_from_filelike('obj', io.BytesIO(b'some content'))
```
I tried to keep the language generic, but if it is confusing, we can simplify it.

> The provenance graph data itself is mostly persisted to the database, with binary blobs that are attached to nodes, such as files, being stored in the repository.

Reviewer: Perhaps

```suggestion
The provenance graph data itself is mostly persisted to the database, whereas files attached to nodes (or other binary content) is stored in the repository.
```

By default, the storage consists of a PostgreSQL database and a `disk-objectstore container <https://disk-objectstore.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ for the file repository.
As of AiiDA 2.0, however, this storage can be customized through plugins, meaning other databases and file stores can be used if desired.
AiiDA ships itself with a number of storage plugins that each have their own strengths and weaknesses.
This section gives an overview of these storage plugins with suggestions of when to use them.

.. grid:: 1 2 2 2
   :gutter: 3

   .. grid-item-card:: ``core.psql_dos``

      *Default storage for production projects that require performance.*

      :fa:`database;mr-1` PostgreSQL database

      :fa:`file;mr-1` ``disk-objectstore`` container

      :fa:`plus;mr-1` **Strengths**:

      - Supports all of AiiDA's functionality
      - Good performance
      - Automatic database migrations

      :fa:`minus;mr-1` **Weaknesses**:

      - Requires a service running (PostgreSQL)

   .. grid-item-card:: ``core.sqlite_dos``

      *Easy to setup storage for tests, demos and experimenting.*

>       :fa:`database;mr-1` SQLite database

Author: In the `filepath` config storage option. User can define the directory on disk, with it defaulting to the systems tmp file system if not provided

      :fa:`file;mr-1` ``disk-objectstore`` container

      :fa:`plus;mr-1` **Strengths**:

      - Easy to setup
      - Requires no running services

      :fa:`minus;mr-1` **Weaknesses**:

      - Some ``QueryBuilder`` functionality is not supported

>       - Performance of SQLite is inferior to PostgreSQL

Reviewer: Just for my understanding: what do we mean by "performance" here? It's slower? Or can things go awry?

Author: Performance is performance, i.e., it is expected to be slower during operation, especially for larger databases and when it is accessed by multiple processes concurrently, i.e. multiple daemon workers, interactive shells.

   .. grid-item-card:: ``core.sqlite_zip``

      *Storage contained in single ZIP file used for export archives.*

      :fa:`database;mr-1` SQLite database

      :fa:`file;mr-1` ``disk-objectstore`` container

      :fa:`plus;mr-1` **Strengths**:

      - Easy to setup

>       - Requires no running services

Reviewer: A strength here is that it's easy to backup and transfer the data.

Author: Yes, although with the upcoming `verdi storage backup` the same could be said for `core.psql_dos`.

      :fa:`minus;mr-1` **Weaknesses**:

      - Some ``QueryBuilder`` functionality is not supported

>       - Storage is deleted once session is closed

Reviewer: Is this true? Also: isn't this storage backend read-only once created?

Author: No this is incorrect. And yes, it should be read-only. Will add that.

   .. grid-item-card:: ``core.sqlite_temp``

>       *Temporary storage mostly used for unit testing.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      *Temporary in-memory storage, mostly used for unit testing or demonstrations.*
```

      :fa:`database;mr-1` SQLite database

      :fa:`file;mr-1` ``disk-objectstore`` container

      :fa:`plus;mr-1` **Strengths**:

      - Easy to setup

>       - Requires no running services

Reviewer: I'd also say a strength here is automatic cleanup. :)
